I'm going to totally disagree with yep45's explanation, though I admit that his is the orthodox opinion. The problem with it, in my mind, is that it perpetuates the basic narrative of WWII without recognizing the way the world changed and with added political implications.

The "lesson" that the US took away from WWII is that we can win any war if we really want to. This was perhaps true in the 1940s and in the context of "total" wars between national states. In WWII, consider the way that the war was essentially a war against populations: massive bombing of civilian targets by the allies, who essentially leveled every major German and Japanese city, well beyond just military targets. These were flat-out wars of destruction against PEOPLE. For the Axis, they really lacked the capacity to destroy populations from the air, so they did it on the ground: the Holocaust was essentially a war against a population, carried out face-to-face. Moreover, in these wars, the populations of the nations that were clearly the aggressors--Germany and Japan--were pretty firmly behind their leaders (not that there wasn't resistance in both of the places, but the wartime governments of both seemed pretty effective at crushing that resistance. Their pro-war consensus may have been manufactured, but it seems to have existed all the same.). Thus, when the allies won, it was pretty clear to everyone who had won and who had lost. When the allies came in and essentially rebuilt Germany and Japan, they were able to install the people they wanted and, I would argue, the total nature of the defeat made it so that the defeated population was willing to go along with it. Perhaps most importantly, Germany and Japan were coherent national states before the war, and despite their defeats and reconstitutions they essentially remained such after the war.

In any case, the lesson that Americans learned from WWII was that they could win if they REALLY WANTED TO. This proved to be a very powerful political message to use against anyone opposing war, and we see that in Vietnam. If you operate under the assumption that you can win any war is you just DECIDE THAT YOU WANT TO, if you're losing, well, it must be because some people (e.g. dirty hippies) DON'T WANT TO WIN.

I think the world has changed since 1945. In the 19th century or the early 20th century, communications and weapon technologies were such that an army could march into some place, assume control, kill those who opposed them, and basically pacify the population. By the second half of the 20th century, however, people could communicate better over longer distances and to larger groups. This meant that because communication in broader spheres was possible, it was easier for people to be active politically. Plus, weapons technology advanced to the point that cheap machine guns and bombs were widely available. The combination of these two elements means that political consensus is more necessary than before, and it's harder to attain. If more people are able to be politically active, and means to wage effective war are more available to everyone, then you NEED a political consensus for a state to be stable. No longer can armies march into a country, kill those who oppose them, and set up a new regime. You need to win "hearts and minds."

However, winning "hearts and minds" is directly contradictory to violent conflict. Armed, coercive missionaries don't win many converts. Thus, I would argue, the American military mission in Vietnam was contradictory to its political mission. It was thus a war that was essentially unwinnable or at the very least extremely difficult. [Added in edit #2] It's also the case since there was no clear "aggressor" who could be said to have started the war, many of the total war tactics and strategies employed in WWII cannot be used. If you're trying to be liberators and are claiming to be fighting to free the whole country of Vietnam from essentially internal enemies, you can't carpet bomb cities. You can, of course, try to carpet bomb and defoliate the countryside, but that's pretty ineffective and mildly counter-productive as well.

Edit: I should add that the war was unwinnable as Americans expected to be able to win it. It wasn't going to be like Germany and Japan, where you apply overwhelming (and even nuclear) force and then apply the government you (the conquerer) want. Vietnam was a nation with a long history of colonial resistance and western aggressors were not going to be accepted as legitimate. Combined with the ease of resistance granted by Kalashnikovs and hand grenades, I don't see how a genuine political consensus could be reached.

I should also add the political implications of my argument, since I've pointed out the political implications of the one I'm arguing against. My argument suggests that the forays into Iraq and Afghanistan are equally unwinnable, or at least equally difficult to achieve "victory," if that victory means that the conquerers are able to install the kind of regime they want.